Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. Language used to speak to a computer.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. Contains many java tools including Contains Java Virtual Machine, Java compiler and Java Runtime Environment.
    JVM - Enables a computer to run a java program.
    Java Compiler - Takes a ".java" java file and compiles it to ".class" file which then can be read by the computer.
    Java Runtime Environment -Holds the JVM and all its libraries.
What is IDE?
A. Integrated Development Environment
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ, ect.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Java code is written, saved as a .java file, it is then taken and put through the java compiler which converts it
   into a .class file which can be executed.
what is class?
A. Blueprint of an object.
What is object?
A. Instance of a class.
What is the entry point of an application?
A. The Main Method.
Why main is static?
A. Main method can not be changed.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object is a superclass.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. PATH is the environment variable where we specify the locations of the jdk binaries, While a CLASSPATH
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Interface cannot have implementations while a abstract class can have abstract methods which can be implemented.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No, you have to extend an Abstract class and implement an interface to a concrete class.
what is Access Specifier?
A. Level of access to a class, method, constructor, variable, ect.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object Orientated Language,
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. A java package groups a group of classes. java.lang packaged is imported by default.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. classes that had been created
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No, you can only inherit from one class, to avoid problems with overwriting similar methods in multiple classes.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Using the same method with different parameters. Happens during
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. Events/errors that occur during running the java project. It normally stops your java
   project from continuing execution. You handle it by using a try catch block of code.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. Static keyword is used when a single copy of a method/variable is created. When you create a static
    method, it belongs to the class instead of an object.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. Final is used on a variable, class, method to make a value constant so that it can not be changed.
    Used on a variable/method so the value of the variable can not be changed.
What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final is used on a variable, class, method to make a value constant so that it can not be changed.
   Finally is used to close a block of code in a try and catch block.
   Finalize is a method used to remove object that is no longer referenced. (Used as a clean-up method)
What is a constructor ?
A. Used to initialize an object.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. Default Constructor
What is "this" keyword in java ?
A.  Used to reference a variable is a given object.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. Reference to a parent class. You can use it to call a method, constructor or variables.
What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine
Is JVM platform independent?
A. No
What version of java are you using?
A. java version "11.0.1" 2018-10-16 LTS
   Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment 18.9 (build 11.0.1+13-LTS)
   Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.1+13-LTS, mixed mode)
What is JAR stand for ?
A. JAR(Java ARchive) is a collection of java code that makeup a self containing java application.
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JDK is the main package that has all the java development tools including the JVM.
   JVM is a component of java that runs and executes the java code.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JVM is responsible for executing/interpreting java project while JRE is the environment where a project is run.
What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile time is when jvm takes a .java project and compiles it into a .class, it will compile regardless of errors
   in the code. Runtime is the time when the compiler takes your java project and runs the program,
   it will not work if there are even a single error.
What is heap?
A. Data area from which memory for all class instances and array are allocated.
How java manage it's memory?
A. In heap and stack memory is responsible for holding references to heap objects
    and for storing value types. Heap is the part of the memory stores the actual object
    in memory.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is immutable while both a StringBuffer and a StringBuilder can be altered.
What is Singleton class?
A. A type of class that is created so that only one instance of that class can be used.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream,
   Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual java object in memory.
when to use transient variable in java?
A. At the time of serialization.
Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. Do while loop allows us to run the method once before the loop begins, while loops will only output as long as
   the condition of the loop is met.
What is Enum?
A. List of Constant variables (variables  in Enum should not be changed)
What is Iterator?
A. Used to read from a list of data.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. An Integer because it is a class object.
Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. String variable can not be changed.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Calling a constructor from a separate constructor.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. Serial Collector is a default copying collector which uses only one thread
    While a parallel collector uses multiple threads.
What is JIT stands for?
A. Just-In-Time compiler.
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. When Heap is full garbage is collected,
    objects that are no longer used are cleared making space for new objects.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. No
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A In heap and stack memory is responsible for holding references to heap objects
      and for storing value types. Heap is the part of the memory stores the actual object
      in memory.
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Ability to examine or modify the properties behavior of an object.
what is multithreading in java?
A. Executing more than one simultaneous programs at a time.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Provides mutually exclusive access toa shared resource with multiple threads in java.
What is Framework?
A. A collection of classes that provides the skeleton of a java project.
What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. testNG and JUnit are the most popular ones.
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. Both are open source testing framework used to writing and reading test, however;
    Junit supports advance annotations, group test and allows different threads simultaneously
    While testNG does not. JUnit is easier to use and user friendly.
What are the dependencies for this project?
A. mySQL connector, MongoDB connector, CsVReader, UnitTestConnectDB, ect.
what is dependency injection in java?
A. Technique whereby one object (or static method) supplies the dependencies of another object.
    A dependency is an object that can be used (a service).
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static binding happens during compile time while dynamic binding happens during run time.








