Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. It is a way to organize and store data in a computer. Without data structures their would be no uniform way to
    store, organize and manipulate data.
What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A. Add, remove, push, pull, sorting data, pop, peek,ect.
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A. Compiler Design , OS, Database Management Systems Simulations, graphs, ect.
what is an Array?
A. Container object that holds a fix number of values.
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A. Array has a fixed number of index while an array list is dynamic and can grow/decrease.
what is LinkedList?
A. Linear data structure where the data is not stored is a contiguous location, every element of data is
    a separate object.
How is an Array different from Linked List?
A. In a array each data is is independent and is stored in its own index while a linked list has its own data and
   data address of a previous data. Stored  in a node based format.
what is queue?
A. Queue is a First-In-First-Out method of Data structure.
what is stack?
A. Stack is a Last-in-First-Out method of Data structure.
what is FIFO and LIFO?
A. FIFO(First In First Out)-First data inputted will be be the first to be removed.
   LIFO(Last In First Out)-Last data inputted will be be the first to be removed.
what is the order of complexity?
A.
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A.
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A.
what is tree in data structure?
A. A tree is a data structure made up of nodes organized in a hierarchical relationship.
what is graph in data structure?
A. A non-linear data structures that are organized in nodes, each node in a graph has connection to any nodes in the graph.
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A. Main difference between the two is hashtable is synchronized while a hashmap is not.
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A.
How HashMap works in java?
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
What is DFS and BFS?
A. Depth-First Search is an algorithm for traversing a tree or graph, starts and the root and explores each branch in-depth,
   Breadth First Search expands the root node first than the successors of the root node are expanded t find the best possible
   path to the data you are searching for.
What is Recursion?
A. Calling one function from another immediately calling itself.
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A. Linear data structures are
What is Big-(O)-notation?
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


